Oh, good afternoon.
Welcome back to the Yahowah blog.
We're here in the library studio,
and that means we're going to continue our
series on the last word picture.
We've actually finished the thirty-first
and final mashal, or proverb,
but that's not the end of the story.
God has a great deal more to say
about the intervention that literally
saved the world.
Had the
discussion that we have chronicled in the
Thirty-First Mashal not have occurred as
it is recorded by the king himself as
he presents this intervention by his
adoptive mother and his adoptive father,
then the world would be a very different
place than it is now because Dowd would
not have
gotten back up after having fallen down,
and there would have been no fulfillment
of Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
which means there'd be no opportunity for
an extension of life or even a chance
to make this human experiment that Yahowah
engaged in, six thousand years,
prove valuable.
It would all have been lost.
So we're going to proceed on this line.
My intent here is I'm going to present
the fifty-fourth chapter of Yashayah,
at least the first half of it,
because it tells us ever more about this
mother that came to visit with Dowd three
thousand years ago and set him back on
the straight and narrow path through the
Towrah.
And then we're going to actually
chronicle,
and I've just finished my essay on it,
what actually transpired that put Dowd in
this terrible place where he and Yahowah
were on the outs.
And so we'll go through all of that.
It's rather shocking material.
And following that,
I'd like to delve into at least two
or three additional Mizmowr.
We want to cover the fifty-first,
which I think is the first expression
after Yahowah's dressing down of his son,
following the Bathsheba expression.
situation where Dowd just wallows all over
himself.
And then I want to deal with the
hundred and sixteenth,
which is really a celebration of the
relationship thereafter.
So we'll make our way through the Mizmowr
and try to get our some bearings and
closure on all of this before we turn
our attention to back to other subjects.
So as we
Peruse my favorite prophet,
that would be Yashayah Isaiah.
On the very same subject of this
productive woman,
this Amah Yahowah's most productive mother,
we find that the fifty-third chapter
speaks of what Dowd accomplished on Pisach
and Matsah,
which was the entire purpose of the visit,
is to
get Down back up after having fallen down
so that Yahowah could work with him and
trust him in the fulfillment of Pesach and
Matsah and of course the fifty-third
chapter of Yasha'yah concludes with an
affirmation of that it reads yet he
himself bore the guilt of many and he
interceded for the guilty
So with that in mind, Pesach and Matsah,
as we know,
work in harmony to immortalize and perfect
the covenant family.
You know, every time I see perfect,
I'm just going to need to stop for
a moment and explain the process.
It's something that I've come to
appreciate recently,
and it's a point that needs to be
made over and over again.
Yahowah is not interested in perfection.
He would be bored out of his mind
if we were conceived perfect.
He is not trying to perfect us in
the sense of making us flawless.
It would be uninteresting for us and
render us incapable of actually
accomplishing anything that would prove
our value to God or that we could
be trusted by him.
Tamym, which is the Hebrew word,
doesn't actually mean perfect.
It is based upon the Hebrew root,
the actionable root or verbal root, tamam.
And it means to fulfill, to complete,
to see the job through,
to accomplish what needs to be done right
to the very end.
And so God's very definition of what he's
trying to accomplish says nothing about
being flawless.
It says nothing about never making a
mistake.
It says that he is interested in us
staying the course that he wants us to
see the job through,
to engage and remain reliable, uh, remain,
um,
resolved to do what needs to be done
and to not give up.
So if you want a definition of what
Yahowah was trying to achieve,
it's not perfection.
It's to being resolved, resolute,
to being committed and willing to engage
and to stay that way.
All right, so Pesach and Matsah,
as we know, they work in harmony.
They provide a doorway to extended life
and they remove our guilt on behalf,
of course, of the covenant family.
And since that is what is happening as
we realize that Dowd himself bore the
guilt of many when he interceded for this
purpose,
then we know that this is consistent what
this barren woman that Yahowah is going to
address through his prophet Yashayah
accomplished with Dowd.
By causing Dowd to be productive again,
the one woman who saved him became the
mother of many because it is Dowd who
enabled the benefits of the covenant,
which is the only way we become part
of God's family.
Now what's particularly remarkable,
all of the prophet's attention is being
directed in everything we're gonna discuss
in the fifty-fourth chapter of Yashayah
toward a single remarkable woman.
And this woman goes from being unable to
conceive to being especially prolific with
her husband.
And in fact,
the transition from one to another
is so essential to the celebration of the
covenant.
God says he wants us all to shout
for joy over this.
So this is the outgrowth.
This is the result of the final word
picture, the last mashal.
It says,
you of all women should sing for joy
as a ringing endorsement.
ranan, you, feminine singular,
should want to shout,
choosing to convey the lyrics of a woman
overcome with delight in a jubilant song
with a melodic and rhythmic accompaniment.
It was scribed in the call imperative.
called literal imperative.
This is a free will expression of it
in second person.
And it was written so that the verb,
the subject of the verb is second person
feminine singular.
So you of all women should sing for
joy as a ringing endorsement.
Oh, barren and infertile woman.
who has not yet given birth, ‘aqar
Female,
who has not yet experienced natural
childbirth for having been hamstrung in
this regard.
She who has not yet born a child,
she who, this is Yalad,
she who has not during this confined
period of time brought forth and
delivered, qal perfect,
which conveys an actual relationship with
a completed time frame,
and thus not ongoing as a condition.
So the woman also is being presented in
third person feminine singular.
So,
and she who has not yet born a
child,
you will become genuinely and ever more
serene, bursting forth in happiness.
patsach
you will be at peace without any negative
concerns or distress.
Sparkling and happy, gleaming,
bright and cheerful.
Also second person, feminine, singular.
Aesthetically delighted, rinah.
So she will want to shout at the
top of her lungs with her appearance
beaming.
She'll want to choose to loudly convey a
radiant message and countenance while she
screams.
she who has not yet writhed and trembled
in labor.
For indeed,
great in abundance will be the children of
the Shamem, of this desolate woman.
Shamem is the deserted and abandoned
woman.
It was written as an actionable concept as
a call participle in the feminine singular
and so it's a verb that is also
a noun and therefore Shamem,
desolate woman is an active title.
From the children of Baal,
the husband to whom she is married
Baal,
the lord and master she has submitted to
in matrimony.
Guess what?
It's also a verbal noun.
qal participle was written,
feminine singular,
speaking of the fact that she,
this barren woman who is now conceiving,
is doing so in harmony with Baal,
her husband Baal.
That's not her husband here.
It's the husband, the husband, Baal.
Now, that statement was from Yashayah,
which means salvation and deliverance are
from Yahowah, Isaiah fifty-four-one.
That's a long statement, isn't it?
It's a lot to unpack there and to
consider.
So let's begin at the beginning because I
don't want anybody...
to miss any of this because this is
really an extraordinary statement.
This is Yahowah speaking.
He is speaking through the prophet
Yashayah.
And he is telling us that there is
a woman who has not yet experienced
natural childbirth.
and that she is going to be the
mother of many,
so many that the world needs to sing
and she needs to rejoice in this regard.
And her proliferation of children is going
to be produced through her Baal,
through this Lord and master of her life,
who is her husband.
And God's not obviously talking about
somebody who, you know, has, you know,
thirteen kids or fourteen kids, you know,
somebody that barefoot and pregnant their
whole life because those kids would
probably be born into a religious family
and would be stillborn.
So he's talking about children that
matter.
Children that he knows and cares about.
Children whose lives are worth
celebrating.
So that makes this even more spectacular.
So God is saying, quite frankly,
thank you,
that there is a woman who has never
experienced natural childbirth and the
labor of natural childbirth,
who is going to
be celebrated as the mother of the
covenant family in conjunction with Baal.
Remember how Baal was used three times in
the last word picture?
Always in conjunction with the adoptive
mother that was counseling Dowd as the son
of God.
And therefore there is a man and a
woman
where they are working collaboratively to
conceive the covenant family.
And because she has the same husband,
it is clear that that woman is the
same that woman who saved the woman who
saved the savior of the covenant,
therefore becomes the mother of the
covenant, does she not?
without her intervention as Dowd's
adoptive M, mother,
without her designation as the ‘Amah of
Yahowah,
without her being celebrated as the Ashar,
there are no children of the covenant
because Dowd does not return to his post.
So you, all of all women,
you of all women,
should sing for joy as a ringing
endorsement.
Ringing endorsement of what?
Ringing endorsement of God's plan,
of the achievements that are conveyed
through his story of saving our savior.
So you of all women,
sing for joy as a ringing endorsement
O barren and infertile woman who has not
yet given birth.
Therefore,
this woman who is serving as the ringing
endorsement of the great news of the
covenant family has not had a child of
her own through natural childbirth.
I know such a woman.
She had six miscarriages.
There happened to be six women in the
Towrah and prophets who were barren.
And all six of those women eventually had
their infertile nature resolved favorably
by Yahowah, including this one.
And she who has not yet born a
child through natural childbirth,
you will become genuinely and ever more
serene, bursting forth in happiness.
Leah has raised a daughter,
but it was the daughter of her ex
when he went off and had an affair
with a woman.
She conceived.
She was crazy.
She couldn't raise the child.
And Leah stepped in and said,
I'll do it.
And she did.
But that's not natural childbirth.
That child is not part of the covenant.
Leah,
because of the uniqueness of her blood and
the fact that her husband had the same
blood type, when a fetus would form,
her biological system would simply devour
it.
And so she was not able to conceive
a child of her own.
And now because of that,
she's in a position where she can fulfill
this prophecy.
So she will want to shout at the
top of her lungs with her appearance
beaming.
And this is she who has not yet
writhed and trembled in labor.
Very,
very specific is God in this whole thing.
This is a woman who has not experienced
natural childbirth.
A miscarriage doesn't count in that
regard.
Someone who has not writhed and trembled
in labor.
And she is going to be the one
who is celebrated.
She's the one who is going to finally
find her life not only meaningful,
but extraordinary.
in God's presence.
I mean,
this is a powerful prophecy right in the
midst of Yashayah immediately following
that tremendous prophecy of how Dowd would
finally serve as the Passover lamb.
And so now that that has been
acknowledged,
Yahowah is giving credit to the woman who
made that possible.
For indeed,
Great and abundant will be the children of
the Shamem desolate woman.
Great and abundant, they're Rab.
So they're extraordinary children,
both numerous and abounding in influence.
They're the covenant children.
And they are from the children of Baal.
And that means that she did not do
this alone.
that the covenant family does have
parents.
They are the Shamem and Baal,
the Amah and Yada.
And this is according to someone who ought
to know, says Yahowah.
Now,
we have already seen several of the many
prophecies regarding the remarkable Amah,
productive mother,
that Yahowah presents to his son, Dowd,
to restore their relationship,
which was badly fractured.
And we know that Ruth introduced this
title in conjunction with delivering the
ga'al, this very kinsman redeemer.
Further,
since the Amah mother fulfilling this role
in the last mashal,
was married to Baal and became Asher,
blessed and beneficial,
as was proclaimed by Leah.
It's obvious that this Shamem,
a desolate woman,
who is prophesied to conceive an abundance
of children, is that very same person.
Shamem, of course,
is a clue in this regard because it
shares the same root as Shem, name.
Leah is among the very,
very few Jews who celebrates being a Yahuwd
and who acknowledges Yahowah's name.
Shamem shares the same root as Shama,
which means to listen, and Shamar,
observe, which is the...
central core of her life.
And these are all key elements in the
transition from life to death or death to
life for all of us.
Even Shamaym, heaven, begins similarly.
And the inclusion of the second mem in
Shemem speaks of motherhood.
because of the breaking of the water of
the embryonic sac at birth,
along with the realization that water is
indeed the source of life.
Its Shamem would be words about water as
the source of life.
What this says is that my extremely
introverted wife,
who is currently tied up in knots over
her rather abrupt transition from the
obscurity of anonymity and the comfort of
anonymity to divine recognition and fame
ultimately is going to be comfortable in
the role and going to celebrate in it.
Maybe we're going to have role reversal.
I'm going to go from extroverted to
introverted,
and she's going to go from introverted to
extroverted.
Wouldn't that be a joy?
But the good news here from my favorite
prophet and well,
the God that actually spoke through him is
that she will grow into this role and
she will eventually celebrate her
essential contribution.
She's going to be openly appreciated for
it.
Moreover, now that my Leah understands it,
it is like, um,
She's become more like me, if you will.
The more she understands what it is that
she's been asked to do,
the more that she will appreciate what
I've been tasked with doing all of these
years.
She will be far more empathetic and
supportive,
knowing that she now is in the spotlight.
and how that feels,
and the added responsibility that comes
with it.
God says she's up to the task.
As an interesting note, Leah is one of,
as I have shared with you,
and I'm now going to delve into them
because I think it's interesting.
Actually, she did the homework,
and I'm going to report on it,
that she is one of six women who
are presented as barren.
something that God eventually resolved on
each occasion, including now Leah.
And with Leah, who, as I have shared,
endured exactly six miscarriages while
mothering the adoptive daughter of her
abusive former husband.
It is a nice parallel, is it not?
Now, turning back the pages of time,
We know all about Sarah as she is
presented in Bare'syth,
because Yahowah caused the woman who
laughed at him to conceive a child,
Yitschaq, named Laughter,
at the ripe young age of eighty,
thereby initiating the covenant.
After having been barren and now following
the birth of her son,
Sarah came to understand Yahowah's intent
with the covenant,
appreciating it far better than did her
husband Abraham.
And since God agreed with Sarah,
after Sarah told Abraham to send Hagar and
Ishmael away because they were not to be
included in this covenant,
they were not part of the family,
Yahowah said the following.
You might want to listen.
Then God said with unfolding implications
over time to Abraham,
this should not be seen as troubling,
as wrong or bad by you for regarding
the child and pertaining to your ‘Amah,
productive mother.
everything and anything, Asher,
to show the way to the benefits of
the relationship.
Sarah,
which means she engages and endures as a
noble woman.
She ever says to you,
you should choose to listen to her voice.
Because through Yitschaq, laughter,
your seed and therefore your offspring and
descendants will be summoned and invited,
met with and welcomed,
recited and appointed for the Miqra'ey.
Bare’syth in the beginning.
Opening book of the Towrah, Genesis.
Twenty-one, twelve.
Now how do you like them apples?
Here we go,
and the first time that we are dealing
with a barren woman,
God told Abraham in front of Sarah that,
nope, your plan is not my plan.
We're not going to do this through the
slave woman.
We're going to do this the right way.
Okay,
so what if you're a hundred and she's
eighty?
Sarah is going to bear the first child
of the covenant.
And she busted out laughing.
She said, I've been infertile all my life.
I'm now an old woman and I'm going
to have a child.
She laughed at God.
She said, that's cool.
No problem with that.
Name the child laughter.
That'll remind you of all of this.
And nine months later, she was pregnant.
Delivered a child.
Well,
she was probably pregnant immediately
thereafter once they stopped laughing.
And thereupon,
the first child of the covenant was born.
But what did God call her?
He called her ‘Amah, the productive mother.
What's the first word that he said after
kol following ‘Amah?
That she's Ashar.
She's the way to show the benefits of
the relationship.
And her name is to engage and endure.
It's pretty powerful, isn't it?
I mean, with every word,
if you just know where to look and
what the clues are that Yahowah's laying,
you can see right here a prophecy pointing
directly to that last word picture,
to the work of the Amah
the woman known as Ashar to the first
child of the covenant so i'll share that
again before we move on then god said
with unfolding implications over time to
abraham this should not be seen as
troubling to you sending hagar and ishmael
away it's not wrong it's not even bad
for you regarding the child and pertaining
to your ‘Amah, your productive mother.
Everything and anything, Ashar,
to show the way to the benefits of
the relationship, Sarah,
meaning to engage and endure,
ever says to you,
you should choose to listen to her voice
because through Yitschaq, laughter and play,
Your seed,
and therefore your offspring and
descendants,
that will ultimately be the covenant
family, will be summoned and invited,
will be met with and welcomed,
will be recited and appointed for the
Mitswah.
Of course, from Qara.
So when Sarah goes from barren to bearing,
the first child of the covenant,
she instantly becomes Abraham's Amah,
productive mother.
As the mother of the covenant,
when she says that others do not belong,
well, she's supported by God.
When Leah says,
you do not belong in the covenant,
God agrees.
And when she speaks,
we would do well to listen.
That is the first reference to the Amah
and the Ashah.
Rebecca is next.
She was Yitschaq's wife.
She was also barren for a while,
as we discover in Bare’syth,
twenty-four, sixty-seven.
This was, of course,
resolved with the twins Esau and Ya'aqob.
Sometimes you get more than you bargained
for,
and that was explained in twenty-five,
twenty-three.
We'll skip past that because, well,
she didn't handle that all that well.
She was a bit mischievous and she left
a resolution,
something that would have to be resolved
for the fractured family to be put back
together because she,
maneuvered Esau out of his birthright,
such that Ya'aqob took it all.
And now the man from Edom comes from
outside that family to resolve this and
resolve that fracture and bring the entire
family back together again.
But anyway, next in line was Rachel,
who was competing with Leah for her Gadowl.
Gadowl is rendered in almost all English
Bibbles as older,
but it's not what it means.
Gadowl means far more important sister.
So it was Rachel that was competing with
Leah,
who is the far more important sister for
Jacob's attention.
And while she would conceive her ongoing
fascination with idols,
proved deadly,
and she died giving birth to the very
troubling legacy of Benjamin.
She would become the forefather of the
Shauls, both of them,
the harbinger of political and religious
rebellion.
Now, as we know,
initially Leah was fertile.
She is famous for having become the mother
of Yahuwd, beloved of Yah,
But when her childbearing years had
passed, she became the model of Ashar,
blessed and beneficial as a surrogate
mother,
not unlike the role she was playing,
our Leah,
was playing before Dowd in the final word
picture, becoming a surrogate mother.
Much
lesser known,
there's also the wife of Manoah.
That is presented in Shaphat Judges,
or Judges, excuse me, Shaphat Judges,
thirteen, one through seven.
After being unable to conceive,
she was approached by a Malak of Yahowah.
While Yisrael was maliciously religious at
the time and subsequently harassed by the
Philistines,
she was told that she would conceive a
Nazyr, a dedicated and devoted one,
and all to forestall Yisrael's collapse.
Well, that's interesting.
In this prophetic implications,
when asked his name,
The Malak bringing this message said,
Huw’ Phila’y, it's either he or it,
is wonderful beyond comprehension.
Thereafter,
he rose to heaven in the midst of
a fire that was set for an uplifting
offering,
and his departure then serves to
demonstrate the transformative power
symbolism that's apparent in the Mowedym as
we're asked to approach the Ishah,
the feminine nature of the fiery light.
Now the sixth barren woman was the wife
of ‘ElQanah
God acquires and obtains is what his name
means.
Chanah, favored and generous,
speaking to Yahowah,
made a nadar, a vow,
similar to that ascribed to the bull using
the same word that would be redeeming the
remnant of Yisrael in Numbers,
verse fifteen.
Thereafter, she called herself Amah Atah,
your productive mother, not once,
but twice.
while requesting the Zerah seed of an Iysh
individual man to offer to Yahowah every
day of his life without interruption.
She conceived and gave birth to Shamuw’el.
And that's the prophet and judge who was
given the opportunity to anoint Dowd.
God's a great storyteller, is he not?
Now, it is curious,
and this was such an eye-opener for me,
I hope it is for you,
that Chanah's name sits immediately prior
to Chanowk, trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed in many Hebrew
texts.
Chanowk, you might be saying,
scratching your head,
who the heck is Chanowk?
Well, what if I were to say Enoch?
Chanowk is the person known as Enoch,
not the one who stole his name to
write the idiotic book.
The Enoch who was with Yahowah and then
was taken.
So that name appears immediately before
Chanowk.
And Chanowk tells us that it really isn't
a name.
It's a job description.
It says he was trained and prepared.
He was dedicated and deployed.
Now this is long before the Towrah.
So God had to train him and prepare
him, dedicate him and then deploy him.
At least this time before the Towrah even
existed.
Now, if I'm perceiving this correctly,
I think that Yahowah has deployed a select
group of souls as needed at various places
along the timeline to keep his plans and
people on track.
Should that be the case,
and I'm convinced that the evidence is
overwhelming and convincing,
then God established the model that he
would use going forward with Chanowk.
As his moniker affirms,
he was instructed and equipped,
then deployed for this purpose.
Based upon the uncommon use of the hitpael
stem, revealing that Chanowk, Enoch,
was completely unaffected
by societal pressures or constraints.
We find an individual influenced by God in
advance of his insertion, but not by men,
making him particularly serviceable in
this role.
He is shown on a continual journey with
Yahowah such that they are walking through
life and time together.
In conjunction with God,
their offspring included Mathuwshelach
a man sent out as a stem.
Yes, you heard that correctly.
Mathuwshelach
a man sent out as a stem.
You know one of those?
I know a guy.
Explaining how the Choter stem would
become the ets Da'ath.
the full picture provided by the tree of
knowledge,
all providing the counsel needed to
restore Yisrael and lead them back to the
tree of lives.
So in this way,
they would father many sons and daughters
for the covenant over the years,
would they not?
Now,
even the fact that he was and would
be known
for having existed three hundred and
sixty-five years,
at a time when the Hebrew calendar was
three hundred and fifty-four days,
suggests that in another life this same
individual would be the first to correlate
God's calendar with man's.
Therefore,
Following the clues,
it appears that whatever time, place,
or title of Yahowah's choosing,
he or sometimes she would be inserted into
the ordinary flow of time by Yahowah,
then removed, returning to God,
awaiting the next deployment.
The key to understanding this supportive
text is the realization our nephesh soul
is what matters.
It can be put into or taken out
of anybody at any time.
And we will be doing that throughout
eternity.
Our nephesh soul is going to be encased
in light and energy.
And E equals MC squared says that we
can take some infinitesimal amount of that
energy and
translate it into a physical body for our
nephesh soul to reside when we wish to
be interjected into the ordinary flow of
time in the material world.
So for God to do that,
having invented DNA,
and living outside of the constraints of
time is exceedingly easy.
And it is a beautiful way to solve
this problem of having his plan,
our key characters go astray.
Like when Dowd fell off the wagon.
If someone didn't give him a good talking
to,
the whole plan was going to end up
crumbled on the floor.
So he inserted his Amah
most productive mother,
followed by her husband, Yada.
In this case,
he's presenting how he is going to
accomplish that through Chanowk.
So here's the supporting text.
Chanowk, meaning trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed,
was unfazed by external human influences
in his consistent walk through life.
Wa halak, he, free of human cultural,
societal, religious,
or political control mechanisms,
traveled with, in the hitpael, imperfect,
third person, masculine, singular.
He traveled through life under these
circumstances with the Almighty.
Afterwards, he delivered him with,
or he delivered with him, I should say,
he delivered with him Mathuwshelach,
a man sent as a stem.
Of course,
an individual dispatched as a shoot.
From math, man, Shelach, sent out,
and Shalach, shoot, stem, or sprout.
At three hundred years.
Then he fathered other sons and daughters.
Oh yes, he did.
All of the days of Chanowk,
trained and dedicated,
as well as deployed,
was and will be three hundred and
sixty-five years.
So, Chanowk, trained and prepared,
dedicated and deployed.
unfazed by external societal influences,
consistently walked,
traveling through life and time with the
Almighty.
And then there was nothing of him because
God had grasped hold of him at that
moment and obtained him for a period of
time.
He took him, selecting and choosing him,
receiving and accepting that which
pertained to him.
Call, quite literally,
perfect for that moment in time,
third person, masculine, singular.
Bare’syth in the beginning, Genesis,
five, twenty-two through twenty-four.
Boy, I hope this plan works.
what I've just shared resonates with you
as it does with me.
It is the ultimate explanation for all of
this.
It's how God keeps his plans on schedule.
It's how he can intervene without
interfering with free will,
without making such a spectacle that he
makes a comedy of the whole opportunity to
choose him or reject him,
but yet assures that we end up where
we need to be.
at the right time in the right way
with the correct message.
In my view,
God's plan is absolutely genius.
You see,
God can infuse any situation under these
circumstances with whatever influence,
incentive,
or protection is needed to keep his plan
moving forward without ever violating free
will or cause and effect because he's
doing it along the timeline as opposed to
bringing somebody back in time.
Every insertion becomes a teaching
opportunity.
He continues to work with and through his
creation, which is his primary manifesto.
He continues to work through people,
his creation,
rather than overpowering it or against it.
Moshe, Dowd, Shalowmo,
and Yashayah could speak confidently about
the Nakar, this observant foreigner,
the ‘Amah, the productive mother,
because they had witnessed them in action.
I think I would give my right arm
to have
The Covenant family and others have an
appreciation of how powerful that insight
is and how brilliantly it is conveyed
through Chanowk.
And what it means to be the Choter,
to be the Nakar, to be the Ashar,
to be the Amah, to be this Shamem.
God could speak powerfully of her,
confidently of her, because he knew her.
The Shamem,
desolate woman whose husband is Baal,
in anticipation of her prolific addition
to the covenant family, God says to her,
You should want to enlarge, to rakab.
You should choose to make expansive and
roomy,
elected to joyfully take advantage of this
opportunity to expand the spatial
dimensions of this place to take a stand
and arise of your tent and brilliant
dwelling place for your household.
And the sheltering curtains of your
tabernacle spread out.
Do not withhold dimensionality,
increasing your cords for the remnant.
The ten strings which hold up and large
and secure your feminine singular dwelling
for those who remain.
It's from my to question,
to ponder the implications of seeking
answers regarding Yathar,
the remnant who were left.
Does that ring a bell?
Then elect to strengthen,
toughening and hardening Chazaq.
Yes,
there would be a woman who would be
Chazaq in addition to her man.
Your tent pegs.
Yeshayah, Isaiah, fifty-four-two.
The terminology used in the follow-on
sentence affirms that this barren woman's
family will be conceived in the years
prior to the fulfillment of the Fall
Miqra'ey in twenty-thirty-three,
year six-thousand YAH.
This coincides with Leah's marriage to
Yada,
which is also presented in this prophecy
as Baal.
With many new children joining the
covenant,
God will accommodate her growing family
during the millennial celebration of
Sukah by expanding Eden so that it covers
the entire earth.
The heart of the land will still be
Jerusalem, the city of Dowd.
There in the maqowm,
we find the standing place,
which is the temple mount on Moriah,
Mount Moriah.
The tent will be stationed there at this
time.
It will be a replica of the tent
of the restoring witness.
I've seen it flutter in the breeze.
And since the Ark of the Covenant will
be repositioned inside during this period,
the sheltering curtains will have to be
spread out again.
This reestablishes, of course,
the ‘Amah and Ashar, Leah,
in a role as the fashion coordinator and
the seamstress of Forevermore.
Throughout this announcement,
The subject of each action remains a
uniquely prolific woman.
At the mention of Chazaq strengthening and
toughening the mythar,
the cords may seem perfunctory at first
glance,
since it would be prudent to secure the
tabernacle on top of the temple mount,
would it not?
However,
it is also a play on words that
inspires a pertinent lesson because it is
the mortal remnant whose resolve will need
to be intensified for them to prosper
during the millennial observance of Sukah
shelters.
I had a good friend that wrote me
today saying, you know,
I don't understand free will in this
period.
And I don't know if he was asking
about the free will of,
of the mortal remnant or the free will
of the covenant family who will be
teaching them.
But just as an insight,
because if he had this question,
I'm sure others may have it as well.
Free will is going to be very different
during this celebration of Sukah as we
have the mortal remnant of Yisrael brought
back into this covenant family,
which is why Chazaq here is an important
term.
Now,
People have full reign with free will.
They can go completely off the rails.
Look at MAGAs and Marxists and Muslims and
Christians and the like.
They're crazy with their expressions of
free will.
And they're allowed to run with it.
That is not going to be the case
in the millennial Shabbat.
We know that because when Yahowah speaks of
reaffirming his covenant upon his return
with Israel and Yahuwdym,
He is specifically saying that the kind of
misleading statements that festered into
religions prior to that time will be
nipped in the bud.
They will not be allowed to build up
to the point that they mislead many and
take them astray.
God's going to make certain that you have
the opportunity to make a mistake,
no big deal.
correct it and move on, learn from it.
But if you want to double down or
triple down and you want to solicit others
to your cause and promote your mistake,
you're done.
You will be marshaled out of that time.
And then speaking of the covenant family
who will be their teachers,
our expression of free will will also be
different.
That's the reason why Yahowah is writing a
copy of his Towrah instructions inside of
us.
We will have to have some guardrails.
We're going to have to know what is
and isn't prudent for us to do as
we're exposed to the fourth, fifth, sixth,
and seventh dimensions.
So we don't mess things up.
Time, for example,
we'll be able to witness antecedent time.
but not engage in it because we would
destroy the fabric of the universe.
We can go to the future and witness
what's happening there,
but we're gonna have to be very careful
as to how we act within time,
how we act around a black hole,
which is equivalent to shield,
how we respond to the opportunity to
manipulate the three-dimensional alphabet
of DNA, the fabric of life.
So there will be some constraints as to
what we can do because there are things
that would be devastating.
And, you know,
if one or more of us goes crazy
and starts opposing God,
and I can't think of any motivation for
doing that,
so it's kind of a hypothetical scenario.
But should somebody do that,
it's either going to have to be resolved
quickly or God will have no choice but
to dispatch that soul to Sheowl.
So free will.
Well,
the opportunities will be much greater for
us and our choices will be much more
extensive.
I mean,
it's like infinity times infinity times
infinity times infinity,
more options and choices for us.
Free will is all about making choices.
We're gonna have infinity to the fourth
power,
more options and choices going forward.
So lots of expression of our will in
all of those choices.
However,
we're also going to have some guardrails
on it so that we don't do something
that puts everyone in harm's way.
So I hope that's kind of an answer.
The other part that I think of his
question was, you know,
how do we present ourselves when we're as
covenant?
We have the ability to transition between
energy and matter.
And how do we do that and interact
in such a way that just doesn't blow
people away?
And I think the answer to that is
pretty straightforward too.
While we're teachers and we're here
engaged on the earth,
we're gonna be in physical bodies and
we're gonna be stuck in the ordinary flow
of time and physical bodies will be using,
forms of transport that are appropriate
under those circumstances,
and means of communication that are
appropriate under those circumstances,
and it will be a physical being talking
to a physical being.
But the covenant members are going to have
the opportunity to withdraw from that
responsibility and spend time in other
dimensions.
And the scheduling of that, though,
becomes exceedingly difficult to even
comprehend or speak of here,
because while Earth will progress on a
normal flow of time,
once we leave this realm,
you could potentially spend a year
exploring someplace in the universe and
have one second go by here on Earth.
So I can't really speak to the timing,
but I do think that the E equals
MC squared of how energy is the same
thing as matter,
but a different amount of it.
So we can take a bit of the
energy that is now housing our energy.
soul and transform it into matter using
the DNA equation and alphabet to re-engage
here on Earth when it's appropriate or on
any other planet or at any other time.
We want to sing a song or feel
the warmth of a sun on our face
or the breeze or have a nice meal,
a glass of wine, any of these things,
sing a great song.
We need that.
And so we'll be able to go back
and forth between these.
And I think it's just going to make.
our eternal existence wonderful,
and a much more enjoyable,
incredible way of interacting with the
remnant of Israel.
Those are my conclusions based upon
everything that we have studied.
I hope they answered the question that I
was asked by Perry.
And if not, he is a bold man.
He will rephrase it.
And for those of you, if I have...
stated something that is inconsistent with
your understanding you know feel free to
uh post that you're gonna have to post
it though even though i know that ninety
percent of the posts now are on facebook
and that you know a program like this
might have a thousand responses in um in
in real time as we are airing it
on the various platforms that we
communicate, you know,
there might be thirty, forty,
fifty on on Facebook and it's on Facebook
that I go to just the easiest platform
for me to use,
because once the show has completed and
I'm now free to interact,
that chat room is is no longer up
on on these
other social media platforms and it would
just be too much for uh me to
do anyway i'd be too taken away from
other responsibilities so a little insight
in that regard the best place to reach
me if you have one of these kind
of questions is add a comment to one
of the recent posts on facebook and i'm
sure to see it and can respond to
it that way in a way that would
be beneficial to all in terms of the
answer so
I think that's the reason why Chazaq is
mentioned here.
We will need to be toughening up the
very tenor of the mortal remnants that is
going to enter the Sukah celebration of
the Shabbat.
during this time because if they don't
have some backbone and some character and
some chutzpah, if you will,
to use the Yiddish term,
they're not going to fare very well
because we're going to be engaged,
we're going to be working,
we're going to be productive,
we're going to show we have the resolve
to overcome challenges,
and we're going to build a wonderful world
together for over a thousand years working
together.
some Chazaq will be quite helpful.
Plus the fact you're going to be exposed,
if you're a part of this remnant,
you're going to be exposed to some very
Chazaq individuals,
starting with this Baal Choter and Nakar
all the way down.
King's going to be Chazaq.
I'm going to be Chazaq.
This marvelous mother,
she will be Chazaq as well.
And if you don't want to be overpowered,
it's highly recommended.
We don't do well with the meek.
Now,
the opening line of what follows reaffirms
that there will be many souls added to
the family of God on Taruwah.
Now,
this is largely the result of the
sacrifice of the Adamah Parah.
purging this final remnant who are now
spread out to the right and to the
left, all around the Temple Mount.
At this moment,
it is signaling their imminent arrival and
that there will be copious amounts of
water that will be released to cleanse
these remnant that are gathered of
Israelites and Yahuwdym in the manner of a
woman's water breaking, if you will,
in anticipation of giving them new life,
a second chance, a rebirth.
Particularly reassuring is that the ‘Amah's
offspring will be spread out,
as we've said here,
to the right and to the left.
to the north and to the south.
And that means that there may be some
Gowym with the Israelites born into the
covenant during Taruwah,
or it could just mean that there will
be Yahuwdym and Yisrael at this.
But I think that the most likely scenario
is that during the celebration of Taruwah,
God has promised that there will be Gowym
brought into Yisrael with the right
attitudes and aptitudes.
along with the Israelites that will have
been minimally, if at all,
religious and political.
As we have already discovered in Yashayah,
additional Gowym will be brought to
Jerusalem at this time as laborers.
This means that the ethnicities and the
nations who subjugated and deposed Jews
for centuries will be given the
opportunity to repay their debt and to
square their accounts.
God is fair after all.
It reads, indeed, you will give birth,
creating a significant spreading out,
paraths.
You will burst forth,
symbolic of the water breaking and gushing
forth from the womb,
to the right and on the left,
which is the south and the north.
Then your seed,
representing your offspring and
descendants,
will inherit and take possession of the
Gentile nations and non-Israelites.
They will inhabit the desolated and
deserted cities.
Yashayah,
freedom and salvation are from Yahowah.
Isaiah, fifty-four, three.
Well, this is quite a portrait of what
we have in store just seven and a
half years from now.
We should all be celebrating the great
contributions, of course,
to the covenant family that are provided
by our beloved Ashar.
And while I'm aware that there are some
who don't much like the idea of the
covenant's children inheriting the earth
and its people, places, and possessions,
when perceived from the proper
perspective,
Well, it's beneficial for everyone.
This is ultimately a win-win,
totally fair.
To restore the conditions experienced in
Eden,
Yahowah must remove all traces of the
political and religious,
the militant and the conspiratorial.
With them gone,
their property and possessions will be
abandoned.
And the ensuing fire,
which has no ongoing,
anything that has no ongoing value,
of course, is going to be incinerated.
That'll be including all military
hardware.
While that which will be a value to
the covenant and this remnant, well,
it's going to be retrofitted.
It'll be reapportioned rather than
destroyed.
And during the thousand years of Sukah,
things like refineries and power plants,
farms and roadways will need to be
maintained.
I mean,
maybe that's why the ‘Amah's husband is
called Baal.
Maybe it's his responsibility as a former
businessman to own these things and
control them and watch over them and
manage them.
They're gonna need to be managed and
maintained, staffed.
So there will be people to do such
things under the watchful eye of some or
more than one members of the covenant.
And maybe it will be like a standard
org chart where there'll be a CEO and
under that individual,
there'll be others who,
oversee the administration of these
things.
I can see why we would want to
continue to have internet connectivity,
why we'd want to still have roads and
airplanes and boats and farms that are
operating, all of these kinds of things,
electricity.
Because it's just not prudent to think
that when God restores the earth back to
the conditions of Eden,
that people are just going to be all
naked out there in the trees.
No, there's going to be housing,
there must be sanitation,
there must be a water supply,
there has to be services.
And then there needs to be a way
for us to communicate and teach these
people.
That's why the Gowym are being brought in
to provide these services and why there
must be an administrator over them.
So Gowym,
if we're looking through all of this,
and some may believe this to be unfair,
but I would have you consider the cause
and the alternative.
You see,
Gowym have persecuted and plundered Jews
nearly to extinction.
And at this time,
antisemitism will be rampant and almost to
the point of becoming a global obsession.
Just finding Gowym with acceptable
attitudes and aptitudes to contribute is
gonna be slim pickings.
So these are the best of the worst,
if you will.
And they will not be afforded this
opportunity had they not been afforded
this opportunity.
Their lives would have been extinguished
like all the other religious and political
idiots out there who were opposed to Jews
and Israel during the Great Conflagration.
So this is a distinct honor.
Also keep in mind that everyone will be
working.
It's not just them,
including covenant members and all of
those included within the remnant.
So labor is not punitive.
The conditions are going to be ideal.
The management will be divine.
The rewards will be extraordinary,
not only because the Yowbel Freedom Clause
will likely still apply,
but they will be given the opportunity
over time to join the covenant family.
And even when we reached the first Yowbel
and all indentured workers are freed,
what to keep everybody from continuing to
do their jobs?
Isn't that God's very definition of what
he considers perfection?
Therefore,
This is a well-deserved reward for the
Ashar's family.
It's just compensation.
It's also a form of accountability.
And it is also a marvelous opportunity for
all others.
God's plan is fair and it's beneficial.
And should you not like it, well,
you don't have to participate.
You can opt out.
Considering how repulsively the men and
women of the mother goddess cult,
clique as I like to say,
have treated my wife recently,
and how discriminatory the world has been
towards Jews, I think this is reassuring.
And we'll conclude our program with this
statement.
You should not be concerned about this
because you will not be humiliated or
distressed again.
You will never be disapproved or shamed by
anyone.
You will not be mistreated or deprived.
Think of what Jews have gone through at
the hands of Christians and Muslims and
Marxists.
Not going to happen again.
By contrast, you will not be anxious,
dismayed, or confused.
Indeed,
you will forget being disappointed,
humiliated,
and shamed when you were younger.
And then the contemptible and dishonorable
condition of being insulted by you being
abandoned by a spouse and forsaken,
you will no longer recall or remember ever
again.
God is setting up the opportunity for a
new beginning, a fresh start.
This perfect scenario where all of the
horrid things that have taken place again
are bygones.
And we start over with a fresh slate.
And working together,
all making a contribution,
Gowym and
Yahuwdym, men and women, boys and girls,
everyone gathered into this opportunity.
The horrible conditions of human
civilization over the past six thousand
years will be forgotten.
And we will begin anew,
creating the kind of conditions and people
and attitudes and aptitudes
that can impress our God,
that can earn his trust,
that can cause us to feel good about
ourselves and about the situation we're
in,
about the contributions that we're making.
So I'd like to leave.
you with that for this evening.
We've gone an hour and twelve minutes into
our program.
Look forward to being with you next time.
I think that this recap by Yashayah,
by Yahowah speaking through Yashayah,
is such a marvelous way to expand our
understanding of that woman and the
consequence of her life as she saves our
Savior and therefore becomes the mother of
the covenant.
and how she works together with her
husband to achieve all of these things and
what we're going to experience over these
next seven and a half and then thousand
years thereafter.
It's all being shared with us in a
very informative way.
So thank you for your time.
I look forward to being with you again
tomorrow.
Good night.